#SER222 Field Guide
####Module 3.04 - Hash Tables
#####Section Frequently Asked Questions
-

###What are hash tables?
 - A hash table is a datastructure that allows us to obtain constant time key access. This is done by utilizing a specific function to *hash* an index within an array from a specific *key*.

###What is a hash function?
- A hash function allows us to create an index from a piece of data. There are many different ways to create a hash function, but it's data type dependent. (See 03.04 supplement handout for more information on hash functions)

###What does M represent?
- M usually represents the size of the hash table. When deciding on what M should be, it's important to understand there should be an even spread among the table. There should also be minimal collisions, so M should be a a large prime number that isn't a factor of 2.

###What is a linear probing hash table?
- A linear probing hash table is a single array that matches a hashed index directly to an object. Linear probing hash tables are effecient for `get` operations, but `put` operations can cause performance hits due to resizing the hash table. (See 3.04 supplement for more information)

###What is a chaining hash table?
- A chaining hash table makes use of linked lists that exist at each index within the hash table's array. Instead of hashed objects being placed at a specifix index, they are placed within a linked list that exists at the specified index. (See 3.04 supplement for more information)