#SER222 Field Guide
####Module 1.01 - Recursion
#####Section Frequently Asked Questions
-

###What is recursion?
 - Recursion is a method calling itself until a final, or base, case is hit. 
 - You can think of recursion like doing the dishes. You have a sink full of dishes that you must clean. So you will repeat the actions of picking up a dish, cleaning it, rinsing it, and putting it away until you run out of dishes.
 - Consider the following example method:
 
 ```Java
 public int cleanDish(Dish newDish) {
 	if(newDish == null) return 1;
 	
 	//... clean the dish
 	
 	return cleanDish(newDish.nextDish);
 }
 ```
 In this method, the dishes are being washed utilizing recursion. This is different than if the dishes were to be washed with iteration.

###What is a size-n problem?
- A size-n problem is the total size of the problem. 
- Think of the dishes example above -.. the size-n problem there would be the total number of dishes in the sink.

###What is a size-m problem?
- A size-m problem is the subproblem that is formulated from your size-n problem.
- Think of the dishes example above -.. the size-m problem there would be the total number of dishes *minus* the dish you just cleaned. (e.g. `totalDishes-1`)

###What is a basecase? 
- A basecase is the stopping condition for the recursive method. This specifies when the recursive method needs to stop calling itself.
- The basecase for the dishes example is `if(newDish == null) return 1;`. This means that if we don't have any new dishes then return `1` signaling that the dishes are complete.

###How do I find my basecase?
- To find your basecase, just look for when your method needs to stop. Finding your basecase should be one of the first steps you perform when creating a recursive method.
- For example, if we are creating a recursive call to compute the fibonnaci we should look for when the fibonnaci sequence ends. Here we know that it ends when the number is either 0 or 1. Therefore our basecases will be to return 1 when the input is 1 and return 0 when the input is here. Consider the example below:

```
public int computeFib(int input) {
	if(input == 0) return 0;
	if(input == 1) return 1;
	return computeFib(input-1) + computeFib(input-2);
}

```

###Instead of using base cases, can't I just encase my code in a single if statement?
- Technically, yes. From a style and readability perspective you should avoid that.